(bright music)
Alright, in this one we are going to talk about
re-ordering when you hit a certain breakpoint,
and the most kinda common use case for something like this
is when you have your desktop view and when
you're going down to mobile or vice versa,
and you want to re-order the items that are on the page.
So rather than taking them out of the DOM
and spin them back in, we can use the flexbox order
to get up and running.
So just a quick little look as to
what we'll be building here.
Just got a simple little website here
and let's take a look at the HTML first.
So I've sort of broken it down into sections,
which is generally how your website is going to be.
And we're just going to be re-ordering each in a second,
so I've just got a wrapper here which is
gonna serve as our flex container.
I've got a header, which I've just sort of put
these backgrounds on each of them.
This is the nav from the previous exercise,
so all of that code is included in this one
but there's nothing really that you
have to worry too much about this,
although we will have added this,
which is the little menu button,
and when you click that on mobile
it's gonna show up and down.
We've got hero, which is just like a big photo.
So a lot of times websites have these nice
big photos here when you load the page,
maybe it's a banner for something.
We've got a detail section
which may have some information about
your product or your website.
We've got a sign up form,
and then I've got just a footer here.
So all of those sections, great
and this is essentially what it's going to do.
Let me just turn the style on the answer.
Style-answer.css and refresh this.
So when I go down, and I've set this to go down at
500 pixels so you'll notice that this is just normal
this is how we had it before.
But if I bring it on down to close to 500,
you'll see what happens is whoa, look what happens here.
So first of all, our menu goes to the top.
Because more likely than not you're gonna want
your menu to be able to open and close,
something like that.
Our header goes below the menu.
Then we bring this details and the form box up.
So these two above the hero.
And then we just let the hero and
the footer go at the bottom.
So pretty standard little ordering.
It's pretty straight forward.
I'm just gonna show you how to do it.
And there is one little gotcha with this menu,
sure used to using jQuery toggle because
it's specific to flexbox.
So let's go ahead, I'm just gonna change this back
to style.css and we'll head into our style.css.
What do we got here?
Again, this is just really simple HTML.
It's probably, it's not something
you're gonna take and use on a website.
I've just appended a bunch of styles to all of the links,
just for simplicity's sake.
If we scroll down, scroll down,
pretty much everything up until here is just styling.
So all of that so far is just styling,
just make sure that our demo doesn't look totally terrible.
Right here, you'll notice that this is for
the flexible nav that we built in the last exercise.
So we're keeping that.
That's gonna work totally fine.
Then we got our, this is for our flexible nav as well
with a breakpoint.
And then here, the 500px, that's where I want
everything to go on and sorta kick in.
So underneath this, what do we really wanna do?
So because all of these sections here,
we've got a header, a nav, a section, a section,
a section, and a footer,
because we wanna append an order property to them,
you tell me what sort of element does
an order property go on?
It goes on a flex-item, right.
So in order to have flex-items,
like we can't just go ahead and select the header
and say display flex-item, that's not a thing.
In order to make something flex-items,
we actually need to go ahead and turn the parent
which in this case is the wrapper,
which is why I always recommend
even if you're doing like a full bleed website,
even if these divs here were just going left to right,
you should always wrap your website in
some sort of wrapper div, just in case
you run into a situation like this.
So I'm gonna go ahead and say .wrapper
display flex so that will turn our wrapper
into a flex-container and our immediate children
into flex-items.
So now I'm gonna refresh, you see nothing changes
cause we gotta hit that 500 pixel breakpoint.
So let's go ahead and hit that and
whoa, what's happening here?
As soon as we hit that 500px breakpoint,
you'll notice that everything just kinda
gets all jumbled up here
and I think this is one of the frustrations with flexbox.
Is that you just turn it on, and it just
breaks your entire website and people go ahh
I can't deal with this.
It's too much work to get it up and running.
However, you'll know that by default
the flex direction is what?
The flex direction is rows right?
We spent all these videos looking at
these columns of content in which that
they were lined out in a row.
So we wanna switch the main access in the horizontal.
We wanna swap them and the way that we do that
is we say flex-direction column.
And give that a refresh and okay good.
So now it's a column and all of our things
are laid out in column view.
So good, we're kinda back where we were.
Next up what we wanna do is start applying
ordering to each of these items.
So the first thing I would want to do
is do it on our flex-nav so I go ahead and select that
as a class of flex-nav on there for.
If we want that to be first, you might think like
okay we'll do order one and give it a save,
and refresh and when we do that,
whoa, where does our nav go?
Our nav goes to the bottom of the page
and how come when you say it is one,
it goes all the way to the end?
So this is because by default
the order of all elements is what?
It's zero, it's a big fat zero.
So what we need to do is put a
default order on everything else,
and this is kinda like z and x,
so what I have been doing is I select every flex-item.
So that's just a quick little selector
of every immediate child of wrapper.
Just put a little comma here say flex-item,
and maybe we'll tell ourselves here flex-container.
Okay and what we'll do with that is we'll
put an order and if I want to be able to say
like one two three four five
without having to worry about everything
being order one, you can do order, and just put like
put a high number on there like 9999.
And give it a refresh.
And now you'll notice that,
so everything is set to a really low number
and because they're all the same,
they're still gonna
when the flex order is exactly the same for
all of them, like if two flex-items have the same order,
what will happen is the order that they
show up in the DOM or in the HTML will take precedence.
So now our order one is working great.
But again, when you get to mobile,
you don't want your nav to be open by default,
so we'll take a quick look here.
I've got this link with a class of toggle nav.
And then we've got this UL that holds all of our links.
So we want to go ahead and say .togglenav display block
and that should, there we go.
It makes this nice little toggle nav one for us,
and we wanna hide the other one so that's flex-nav ul
display none.
Great so while we're there,
if I go ahead and click this you'll notice that
it's not working and the reason behind that is
if we open up our dev tools here
and go to elements, and just open this up so that
we can see this navigation here and go ahead and click it
and you'll notice that there's a class of open,
being toggle on and off on and off.
Now why did I do that?
If we look at the jQuery just at the bottom here,
I say when the link with the class of toggle nav
is clicked then grab the flex-nav unordered list
and toggle the class of open.
So you may be saying like why don't you just do
something like slide toggle,
which is kinda cool cause you get
the animation along with it.
So give that a save and refresh,
and cool it works, but the main--
The thing here is like, remember our
these guys right here were stacked four in a row
and now that they are just one two three four
stacked like that,
and the reason behind that is because
for these ones to stack side by side
and especially like if we're talking about
this one right here as well,
where they stack one two one two one two
and then four beside each other,
for that to actually work on our mobile
when we open it on up,
we actually need this ul to be display flex
not display block and when you use jQuery toggle
or slide toggle or something like that,
it just changes it from display none to display flex.
So unfortunately we can't use slide toggle,
we need to toggle our own class of open
and go back here,
and when it has a class of open,
gonna go down into here,
we'll say .flex-nav ul.open
normally you'd say display block
but in our case we're saying display flex.
Give that a save.
And it works great so it just pops open and closed
so there's no animation there,
if you wanted to you could pop some
css height animations on there which would
allow us to slide it open and closed
open and closed and then I think that's sort of
the better way to do it as well.
We're slowly moving away, moving our
animations outta things like jQuery and back into css.
So that's it for our nav.
We've got that all up and running.
Up next we need to re-order some of our items.
So we thought about this,
this is one, we have this one as two
so let's go ahead and do that
so it's just .top. Why?
Because if you look at it, we've got a header
with a class of top so just top is enough for a selector.
And we'll say not flex, order two, give it a save.
And that's not gonna do anything but
just because we're gonna be changing the ones after it
we have to explicitly set it to two.
Next up we want this, details here,
so this is a section with a class of details
and section with a class of sign up.
We want those to be three and four.
So I can go ahead and say .details order three,
and I'll just go ahead and say .signup order four.
Now give that a save and a refresh.
And perfect, looks like we've got everything in order.
Our nav is still working.
We've got our header, we've got our details,
we've got our content, and then we don't
have to worry about setting these to be five and six.
How come?
Because since they already set to 9999,
they are just going to be appended at the bottom
in the order that they show up.
So since hero comes first, and footer comes next,
they are going to show up.
That's actually kind of a neat thing to show as well,
like this is the order, just put your cursor
over top of your elements and watch it jump around
from top to bottom.
So that's mobile re-ordering.
Pretty handy, pretty simple, I think.
Just make sure that you have your wrapper
as a display flex and then you can
go ahead and use the flex ordering property
in order to move them around.
See you in the next video.
(bright music)